# DAMAGE CREATION AND ADVECTION IN THE AMUNDSEN SEA SECTOR

In this test, we propose to apply the SL method to a high resolution ice sheet model to simulate the evolution of ice damage in the Amundsen Sea region, where a rapid and important ice sheet mass loss has been observed over the last decades. This rapid mass loss has led to important structural changes in the ice sheet, which increased ice damage in key areas such as the shear margins. These damage areas consist of highly crevassed areas that often appear where the ice becomes afloat and evolve as they are advected downstream over the ocean. 

## Contents

- **AMU.param**: Parameter file for the simulation.
- **AMU_FIX_D1.IRENE.sh**: Shell script for running the simulation on TGCC, this should be adapted depending on user's system. 
- **AMU_FIX_D1.sh**: Shell script for running the Elmer/Simulation. It takes 4 variables: sigma_th, dt, N_internal, dt_output.
- **RESTART_AMU_FIX_D1.sh**: Shell script to manage restarts if needed. 
- **DATA/**: Directory containing the "damage_mask.nc" used to avoid damage in area like steep mountains where ice does not exist.
- **ELMERSOLVER_STARTINFO**: File containing start information for the Elmer solver (automatically generated by bash scripts)
- **FUNCTIONS/**: Directory containing various LUA function files used in the simulations.
- **LOG/**: Directory for storing log files generated during the simulations.
- **MESH_1000/**: Directory containing mesh files and `.result` files created during simulations. `.result` files can also be used as an initial point for simulations.
- **REF/**: Directory containing reference `.sif` files used in the simulations.
- **SIMUS/**: Directory for storing `.sif` that have already been run
- **USF_Damage/**: Directory containing the `fortran` damage functions used in the simulations. These must be compiled before the simulations with the command `elmerf90 MY_USF_Damage_Limiter.F90 -o MY_USF_Damage_Limiter` or just by typing `make` in the subdirectory


